
Each Chaos List, A through F, will have 100 elements.
10 of those elements (those rolls ending in 9) will move the players from one list to another, or have some other meta-effect.

For a particular effect, try to find an existing magic card that has that effect before creating a new one.

No land destruction on list A.

Each List has "Fireballs": A(d4,d2), B(d4,d4), C(d6,d4), D(d8,d4), E(d10,d4), F(d10,d6).

keep in mind that slowing down the game is only a real problem if it involves people waiting. a slow effect that has everyone make an interesting choice (e.g. Gamble) is fine.

Things to discourage in chaos:

library search effects. this slows down the game and leads to people waiting.
Destroying permanents in general. This is an important effect, but shouldn't be too common because it can slow things down and cause frustration.
Destroying land. It's not fun to lose your land. There should be fewer land destruction effects than other destroy effects.
Punishing people horribly for playing a mono-color deck (e.g. Naked Singularity is really unfair.)
Massively one-sided effects. e.g. "destroy all creatures" is more fair than "each opponent sacrifices a creature," which is more fair than "destroy X target creatures".
Tedious effects. e.g. "do one mild thing 15 times" is much worse than "do one very dramatic thing".
Giving the players too much choice bogs down the game, especially if the choices aren't horribly interesting. It's usually better to give the player a yes/no choice than a "choice one of the following effects" sort of choice.
adding effects that have a negligible effect on the game, are only interesting in narrow circumstances, or require people to be playing a certain unusual type of card or deck archetype.
giving the players permanents that are only useful if they are playing the right deck (e.g. an enchantment that pumps up all elves, or a creature with an activation ability with a colored mana cost.)
giving out a lot of different and complicated tokens.

Things to encourage:

Putting permanents into play and shifting control of permanents. These effects are both fun and chaotic.
Doing damage to players. Chaos is a slow format, and this can speed up the game.
Helping interesting decks. Keep an eye out for effects that help people playing interesting cards.
adding effects that reinforce the color themes.
